<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: His Grace of Avon’s Ward</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">His Grace of Avon’s Ward</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>A fortnight later, when Léonie was practising a court curtsy before the mirror in her room, Fanny entered with the announcement that Avon had come at last. Léonie arose from her curtsy with more haste than grace.</p>
			<p>“Monseigneur!” she cried, and would have flown from the room, had it not been for Fanny, who resolutely barred her passage. “Let me go! Let me go! Where is he?”</p>
			<p>“ ’Pon rep, Léonie, that is no way to receive a gentleman!” said her ladyship. “To run downstairs like a hoydenish miss, with your hair in a tangle, and your gown caught up! Come back to the mirror.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I insist!”</p>
			<p>Léonie came reluctantly and was passive while Fanny arranged her gown of primrose silk, and combed out the unruly curls.</p>
			<p>“Léonie, you tiresome creature, where is your ribbon?”</p>
			<p>Léonie fetched it meekly.</p>
			<p>“I do not like to feel a ribbon in my hair,” she complained. “I would rather⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It is of no consequence at all,” said Fanny severely. “I am determined you shall look your best. Shake out your petticoat, and pick up your fan. And if you dare to run forward in an unmaidenly way I shall be so mortified⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Let me go now! Please, I am ready!”</p>
			<p>“Then follow me, child, so!” Out swept Fanny, and down the stairs. “Remember! A decorous curtsy, my love, and give him your hand to kiss.” As she spoke she opened the door into the withdrawing-room.</p>
			<p>“Bah!” said Léonie.</p>
			<p>His Grace was standing by the window, looking out.</p>
			<p>“So my sister has not induced you to stop saying ‘bah’?” he said, and turned. For a moment he said nothing, but stood looking at his ward. “Infant, it is very well,” he said at last, slowly.</p>
			<p>Léonie sank into a curtsy, talking all the time.</p>
			<p>“I must do this because madame says so, and you bade me do as she told me, Monseigneur, but oh, I would rather bow to you!” She rose gracefully, and danced forward. “Monseigneur, Monseigneur, I thought that you would never come! I am so very pleased to see you!” She caught his hand to her lips. “I have been good and patient, and now will you take me, please?”</p>
			<p>“Léonie!”</p>
			<p>“Well, but madame, I want so much for him to take me.”</p>
			<p>Avon raised his eyeglass.</p>
			<p>“Stand still, child. Fanny, I kiss your hands and feet. I am almost surprised at the miracle you have wrought.”</p>
			<p>“Monseigneur, do you think that I am nice?” asked Léonie, tiptoeing before him.</p>
			<p>“It’s an inadequate word, child. You are no longer Léon.”</p>
			<p>She sighed, shaking her head.</p>
			<p>“I wish I were Léon still. Monseigneur, do <em>you</em> understand what it is to be put into petticoats?”</p>
			<p>Fanny started, and frowned direfully.</p>
			<p>“Naturally I do not, my beautiful ward,” Justin answered gravely. “I can imagine that after the freedom of your breeches, petticoats are a little cramping.”</p>
			<p>Léonie turned triumphantly to Fanny.</p>
			<p>“Madame, he said it! You heard him! He spoke of breeches!”</p>
			<p>“Léonie⁠—Justin, I’ll not have you let her bewail her⁠—her breeches⁠—as she is forever doing! And don’t, don’t say bah, Léonie!”</p>
			<p>“She has fatigued you, my dear? I believe I warned you that she was something of a rogue.”</p>
			<p>Fanny relented.</p>
			<p>“Indeed, and we love her dearly! I could wish that you would leave her with us longer.”</p>
			<p>Léonie took a firm hold on Avon’s coat sleeve.</p>
			<p>“You won’t, will you, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>He disengaged himself.</p>
			<p>“My infant, you must strive to be more polite. One would infer that you had been unhappy with Lady Fanny.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Monseigneur, very unhappy. It is not because she is not kind, for she has been very kind to me, but I belong to you.”</p>
			<p>Over her head Justin looked mockingly at his sister.</p>
			<p>“It distresses you, my dear? I believe you are right, Léonie. I have come to fetch you.”</p>
			<p>She was all smiles at once.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Voyons</i>, now I am happy! Where will you take me, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“Into the country, child. Ah, the worthy Edward! Your devoted servant, Edward.”</p>
			<p>Marling had entered quietly. Stiffly he returned Avon’s bow.</p>
			<p>“I would have a word with you an it please you, Alastair,” he said.</p>
			<p>“But does it please me?” wondered his Grace. “No doubt you wish to speak concerning my ward?”</p>
			<p>Edward looked annoyed.</p>
			<p>“In private, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Quite unnecessary, my dear Edward, I assure you.” He flicked Léonie’s cheek with one careless finger. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marling has no doubt warned you that I am no fit companion for the young and⁠—ah⁠—innocent, infant?”</p>
			<p>“No-no.” Léonie tilted her head. “I know all about that, you see. Me, I am not very innocent, do you think?”</p>
			<p>“That will do, Léonie!” hastily interposed Fanny. “You’ll drink a dish of Bohea with me, Justin? Léonie shall be ready to accompany you tomorrow. Léonie, my love, I have left my handkerchief in your room. Be so good as to fetch it for me. And Edward may go too. Yes, Edward, please!” So she drove them out, and turned again to her brother. “Well, Justin, I’ve done as you desired me.”</p>
			<p>“Admirably, my dear.”</p>
			<p>Her eyes twinkled.</p>
			<p>“At no small cost, Justin.”</p>
			<p>“It is no matter, Fanny.”</p>
			<p>She eyed him irresolutely.</p>
			<p>“What now, Justin?”</p>
			<p>“Now I take her to Avon.”</p>
			<p>“With Cousin Field?”</p>
			<p>“But could you doubt it?” he bowed.</p>
			<p>“Easily.” She curled her lip. “Justin, what is it you intend? You’ve some scheme, I know. I’ll believe you mean no ill by Léonie.”</p>
			<p>“It is always wise to believe the worst of me, Fanny.”</p>
			<p>“I confess I don’t understand you, Justin. ’Tis most provoking.”</p>
			<p>“It must be,” he agreed.</p>
			<p>She drew nearer, coaxing him.</p>
			<p>“Justin, I do wish that you would tell me what is in your mind!”</p>
			<p>He took a pinch of snuff, and shut the box with a snap.</p>
			<p>“You must learn, my dear Fanny, to curb your curiosity. Suffice it that I am as a grandfather to that child. It should suffice.”</p>
			<p>“It does, in part, but I do so want to know what scheme you have in your head!”</p>
			<p>“I am sure you do, Fanny,” he said sympathetically.</p>
			<p>“You are very horrid,” she pouted. A sudden smile came. “Justin, what new whim is this? Léonie speaks of you as of a strict governor. ’Tis forever ‘Monseigneur would not like me to do that,’ or ‘Do you think that Monseigneur would mind?’ It’s not like you, my dear.”</p>
			<p>“An I knew less of the world’s ways I should no doubt be a more lenient guardian,” he said. “As it is, Fanny⁠—” He shrugged, and drew his fan from one of his great pockets.</p>
			<p>Léonie came back into the room, holding up her gown with one little hand.</p>
			<p>“I could not find your handkerchief, madame,” she began, and then saw Avon’s fan. A look of disapproval came over her face; there was a measure of reproof in the candid blue eyes. Avon smiled.</p>
			<p>“You will grow accustomed to it, my child.”</p>
			<p>“Never,” said Léonie positively. “It does not please me at all.”</p>
			<p>“But then,” murmured his Grace, “I do not use it to please you.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Pardon, Monseigneur!</i>” she answered contritely, and peeped at him through her lashes. The irresistible dimple quivered.</p>
			<p>“She’ll snare him,” thought Fanny. “She is all too fascinating.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Justin took his ward down to Avon by coach the following day, in company with Madam Field, on whose amiable vapidity Léonie looked with scant respect. Justin was quick to read her opinion of the lady, and when they arrived at Avon, took her aside.</p>
			<p>“This,” said Léonie buoyantly, “is a nice house. I like it.”</p>
			<p>“I am rejoiced to hear you say so,” replied his Grace ironically.</p>
			<p>Léonie looked round the panelled hall, with its carven chairs, its paintings, and tapestry, and the gallery above.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps it is a little sombre,” she said. “Who is this gentleman?” She went to a suit of armour, and regarded it with interest.</p>
			<p>“It is not a gentleman at all, my infant. It is the armour one of my ancestors wore.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Vraiment?</i>” She wandered away to the foot of the stairs, and inspected an ancient portrait. “Is this another ancestor, this foolish woman?”</p>
			<p>“A very famous one, my dear.”</p>
			<p>“She has a stupid smile,” Léonie remarked. “Why was she famous? What for?”</p>
			<p>“Principally for her indiscretions. Which reminds me, child, that I want to speak to you.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Monseigneur?” Léonie was staring now at a shield which hung above the fireplace. “ ‘<i xml:lang="fr">J’y serai.</i>’ That is French.”</p>
			<p>“Your intelligence is remarkable. I wish to speak to you of my cousin, Madam Field.”</p>
			<p>Léonie looked at him over her shoulder, grimacing.</p>
			<p>“May I say what I think, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>He sat down on the great carved table, swinging his eyeglass.</p>
			<p>“To me, yes.”</p>
			<p>“She is just a fool, Monseigneur.”</p>
			<p>“Indubitably. And therefore, my infant, you must not only bear with her folly, but you must be at pains to cause her no trouble.”</p>
			<p>Léonie seemed to debate within herself.</p>
			<p>“Must I, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>Justin looked at her, and recognised the naughty twinkle in her eye.</p>
			<p>“Because I will it so, my child.”</p>
			<p>The little straight nose wrinkled.</p>
			<p>“Oh, <i xml:lang="fr">eh bien</i>!”</p>
			<p>“I thought so,” remarked Avon beneath his breath. “It is a promise, Léonie?”</p>
			<p>“I do not think that I will promise,” Léonie temporised. “I will try.” She came and stood before him. “Monseigneur, it is very kind of you to bring me to this beautiful place, and to give me everything just as though I were not the sister of an innkeeper. Thank you very much.”</p>
			<p>Justin looked at her for a moment, and his lips twisted in a curious smile.</p>
			<p>“You think me a paragon of all the virtues, don’t you, <i xml:lang="fr">ma fille</i>?”</p>
			<p>“Oh no!” she answered candidly. “I think it is only to me that you are kind. With some women you are not good at all. I cannot help knowing these things, Monseigneur!”</p>
			<p>“And yet, child, you are content to remain with me?”</p>
			<p>“But of course!” she answered in some surprise.</p>
			<p>“You are full of trust,” he remarked.</p>
			<p>“Of course,” she said again.</p>
			<p>“This,” said Avon, looking at the rings on his hand, “is a new experience. I wonder what Hugh would say?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, he would pull down his mouth, so! And shake his head. I think he is sometimes not very wise.”</p>
			<p>He laughed, and laid a hand on her shoulder.</p>
			<p>“I never thought, <i xml:lang="fr">ma fille</i>, to take unto me a ward so much after mine own heart. I beg you will be careful not to shock Madam Field.”</p>
			<p>“But with you I may say what I please?”</p>
			<p>“You always do,” he replied.</p>
			<p>“And you will stay here?”</p>
			<p>“For the present. I have to attend to your education, you see. There are things you have to learn that I can best teach you.”</p>
			<p>“What, <i xml:lang="fr">par example</i>?”</p>
			<p>“To ride?”</p>
			<p>“On a horse? <i xml:lang="fr">Vraiment?</i>”</p>
			<p>“The prospect pleases you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, oh yes! And will you teach me to fight with a sword, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“It’s not a ladylike occupation, <i xml:lang="fr">ma fille</i>.”</p>
			<p>“But I do not always want to be a lady, Monseigneur! If I may learn to fight with a sword I will try very hard to learn the other silly things.”</p>
			<p>He looked down at her, smiling.</p>
			<p>“I believe you are trying to drive a bargain with me! What if I will not teach you to fence?”</p>
			<p>She dimpled.</p>
			<p>“Why, then I fear I shall be very stupid when you teach me to curtsy, Monseigneur. Oh, Monseigneur, say you will! Please say it quickly! Madame is coming.”</p>
			<p>“You force my hand,” he bowed. “I will teach you, imp.”</p>
			<p>Madam Field entered the hall in time to see her charge execute a neat step-dance. She murmured expostulations.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
