<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII: Of a Capture, a Chase, and Confusion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Of a Capture, a Chase, and Confusion</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Oh, parbleu!</i>” Léonie said in disgust. “This Rupert he is always late, the <i xml:lang="fr">vaurien</i>!”</p>
			<p>“My dearest love,” Madam Field reproved her. “That expression! Indeed, it is not becoming in a young lady! I must beg of you⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Today I am not a lady at all,” said Léonie flatly. “I want Monseigneur to come.”</p>
			<p>“My dear, it is hardly proper in you to⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Ah, bah!” said Léonie, and walked away.</p>
			<p>She went to her own apartment, and sat disconsolately down at the window.</p>
			<p>“It is two weeks since Monseigneur wrote,” she reflected. “And then he said, I come soon now. <i xml:lang="fr">Voyons</i>, this is no way to keep that promise! And Rupert is late again.” A sparkle came into her eyes. She jumped up. “I will have a game with Rupert,” she said.</p>
			<p>With this intention she pulled her boy’s raiment out of the cupboard, and struggled out of her skirts. Her hair had grown, but it was not yet long enough to be confined in the nape of her neck by a ribbon. It clustered about her head still in a myriad of soft curls. She brushed it back from her forehead, dressed herself in shirt and breeches and coat, and catching up her tricorne, swaggered downstairs. Luckily Madam Field was nowhere to be seen, so she escaped without let or hindrance into the garden. It was the first time she had ventured out of doors in her boy’s gear, and since it was an illicit pleasure her eyes twinkled naughtily. Rupert, with all his laxity, had in him a quaint streak of prudery, as she knew.</p>
			<p>He would of a certainty be shocked to see her parading the grounds thus clad, and as this was precisely what she wanted she set out in the hope of meeting him, making for the woods that ran down towards the road.</p>
			<p>Halfway across the big meadow that separated her from the woodland she espied Rupert coming from the stables, carrying his hat under his arm, and whistling jauntily. Léonie cupped her hands about her mouth.</p>
			<p>“Ohé, Rupert!” she called gleefully.</p>
			<p>Rupert saw her, stood still for a moment, and then came striding towards her.</p>
			<p>“Fiend seize it, what will you be at next?” he shouted. “ ’Pon my soul, it’s scandalous, stap me if it’s not! Home with you, you hoyden!”</p>
			<p>“I shall not, Milor’ Rupert!” she cried tauntingly, and danced away. “You cannot make me!”</p>
			<p>“Can I not, then?” called Rupert, and, dropping his hat, broke into a run.</p>
			<p>Léonie straightway dived into the wood, and fled as for her life, for she knew very well that if he caught her Rupert would have no hesitation in picking her up and carrying her back to the house.</p>
			<p>“Wait till I catch you!” threatened Rupert, crashing through the undergrowth. “Damme, I’ve torn my ruffle, and the lace cost me fifteen guineas! Plague take it, where are you!”</p>
			<p>Léonie sent a mocking cry echoing through the wood, and ran on, listening to Rupert’s blundering progress behind her. She led him in and out of the trees, through bushes, round in circles, and over the stream, always keeping just out of sight, until she found herself coming out into the road. She would have turned, and doubled back, had she not chanced to see a light travelling coach standing near by. She was surprised, and tiptoed to peep at it over a low thorn-bush. In the distance she heard Rupert’s voice, half-exasperated, half-laughing. She threw back her head to call to him, and as she did so, saw to her amazement the Comte de Saint-Vire, walking quickly up on one of the paths that led through the wood. He was frowning, and his heavy mouth pouted. He looked up, and as his glance fell upon her the frown went from his face, and he came hurrying towards her.</p>
			<p>“I give you good morrow, Léon the Page,” he said, and the words bit. “I had hardly hoped that I should find you thus soon. The luck is with me this round, I think.”</p>
			<p>Léonie retreated a little. Avon’s warning was in her mind.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Bon jour, m’sieur</i>,” she said, and wondered what he was doing in the Duke’s grounds, or why he was in England at all. “Did you go to see Monseigneur?” she asked, with wrinkled brow. “He is not here.”</p>
			<p>“I am desolated,” said Saint-Vire sarcastically, and came right up to her. She shrank, and in a fit of inexplicable panic, called to Rupert.</p>
			<p>“Rupert, Rupert, <i xml:lang="fr">à moi</i>!”</p>
			<p>Even as she cried Saint-Vire’s hand was over her mouth and his other arm about her waist. Struggling madly she was swept from the ground and borne at a run to where the coach stood waiting. Without compunction she bit deeply into the hand over her mouth. There was a muttered oath, the hand flinched a little, and she jerked her head away to shriek again.</p>
			<p>“Rupert, Rupert, <i xml:lang="fr">on m’enporte</i>! <i xml:lang="fr">À moi, à moi, à moi!</i>”</p>
			<p>His voice came to her, nearer at hand.</p>
			<p>“Who⁠—what⁠—? What the devil⁠—?”</p>
			<p>She was flung then into the coach, sprang up like a small fury, but was thrust roughly back again. She heard Saint-Vire give an order to the coachman; then he jumped in beside her, and the coach lurched forward.</p>
			<p>Rupert came plunging out into the road, hot and dishevelled, just in time to see the coach disappear round the bend in the road, in the direction of the village.</p>
			<p>He had suspected at first that Léonie was only teasing him, but her second cry had held a note of genuine alarm, while now there was no sign of her. With characteristic impetuosity he went headlong down the road in pursuit of the coach, never stopping to consider the wisdom of returning to the stables for his horse. Full-tilt he went, hatless, with torn ruffles, and wig askew. The coach was out of sight, but he ran on until he was blown. Then he dropped into a walk. When he had got his breath back he ran again, and had a grin for the comic figure he knew he must be cutting. He had no idea who had seized Léonie, or why, but he felt certain that she was in that coach. His fighting spirit was aroused, and, incidentally, his love of adventure: he determined to catch the coach if it cost him his life. So, alternately running and walking, he came at last to the straggling village, three miles distant, and seeing the first cottage, broke once more into a weary jog-trot.</p>
			<p>The blacksmith was working in his yard, and looked up in astonishment as Rupert’s well-known figure approached.</p>
			<p>“Hey, there!” Rupert panted. “A coach⁠—passed this way. Where went⁠—it?”</p>
			<p>The smithy rose and touched his forelock.</p>
			<p>“Yes, my lord.”</p>
			<p>“Devil take you! The coach!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, my lord, yes,” said the puzzled smith.</p>
			<p>“Did⁠—it⁠—pass here?” demanded Rupert in stentorian tones.</p>
			<p>Light broke upon the smith.</p>
			<p>“Why, yes, your lordship, and stopped at the Arms. ’Tis gone this twenty minutes.”</p>
			<p>“Curse it! Whither?”</p>
			<p>The smith shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Beg pardon, your lordship, but I was not watching.”</p>
			<p>“You’re a fool,” said Rupert, and plodded on.</p>
			<p>The landlord of the Avon Arms was more communicative. He came bustling out to meet his young lordship, and threw up his hands at sight of him.</p>
			<p>“My lord! Why, your lordship has lost his hat! Your coat, sir⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Never mind my coat,” said Rupert. “Where went that coach?”</p>
			<p>“The French gentleman’s coach, sir?”</p>
			<p>Rupert had collapsed on to the settle, but he sat bolt upright now.</p>
			<p>“French? <em>French?</em> So that’s it, is it? Oho, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> le Comte! But what the deuce does he want with Léonie?”</p>
			<p>The landlord looked at him sympathetically, and waited for him to explain.</p>
			<p>“Ale!” said Rupert, sinking back again. “And a horse, and a pistol.”</p>
			<p>The landlord was more perplexed than ever, but he went off to fetch ale in a large tankard. Rupert disposed of it speedily, and drew a deep breath.</p>
			<p>“Did the coach stop here?” he demanded. “Did you see my brother’s ward in it?”</p>
			<p>“Mistress Léonie, my lord? No, indeed! The French gentleman did not alight. He was in a mighty hurry, sir, seemingly.”</p>
			<p>“Scoundrel!” Rupert shook his fist, scowling.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fletcher retreated a pace.</p>
			<p>“Not you, fool,” said Rupert. “What did the coach stop for?”</p>
			<p>“Why, sir, the reckoning was not paid, and the moossoo had left his valise. The servant jumps off the box, comes running in here to settle the reckoning with me, snatches up the valise, and was out of the place before I’d time to fetch my breath. They’re queer people, these Frenchies, my lord, for there was me never dreaming the gentleman proposed to leave today. Driving hell for leather, they was, too, and as good a team of horses as ever I see.”</p>
			<p>“Rot his black soul!” fumed Rupert. “The devil’s in it now, and no mistake. A horse, Fletcher, a horse!”</p>
			<p>“Horse, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Burn it, would I want a cow? Horse, man, and quickly!”</p>
			<p>“But, my lord⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Be hanged to your buts! Go find me a horse and a pistol!”</p>
			<p>“But, my lord, I’ve no riding horses here! Farmer Giles hath a cob, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No horse? Damme, it’s disgraceful! Go and fetch the animal the smith’s shoeing now! Away with you!”</p>
			<p>“But, my lord, that is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers’ horse, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Devil take <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers! Here, I’ll go myself! No, stay! A pistol, man.”</p>
			<p>The landlord was upset.</p>
			<p>“My lord, it’s a touch of the sun must have got into your head!”</p>
			<p>“Sun at this time of the year?” roared Rupert, thoroughly exasperated. “Go find me a pistol, sirrah!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, my lord, yes!” said Fletcher, and retreated in haste.</p>
			<p>Rupert set off down the road to the blacksmith’s, and found him whistling to himself as he worked.</p>
			<p>“Coggin! Coggin, I say!”</p>
			<p>The blacksmith paused.</p>
			<p>“Yes, my lord?”</p>
			<p>“Hurry with that shoe, my man! I want the horse.”</p>
			<p>Coggin stared, open-mouthed.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—but ’tis not one of his Grace’s horses, sir⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Tare an’ ’ouns, would his Grace own such a brute? Do ye take me for a fool?”</p>
			<p>“But ’tis <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers’ roan, your lordship!”</p>
			<p>“I don’t care if ’tis the devil’s own chestnut!” cried Rupert. “I want it, and that’s enough! How long before you have that shoe on?”</p>
			<p>“Why, sir, twenty minutes, or maybe longer.”</p>
			<p>“A guinea for you if you hasten!” Rupert searched in his pockets and produced two crowns. “And ask it of Fletcher,” he added, stowing the crowns away again. “Don’t sit staring at me, man! Hammer that shoe on, or I’ll take the hammer to knock sense into your head withal! Stap me if I won’t!”</p>
			<p>Thus adjured, the smith set to with a will.</p>
			<p>“The groom’s walked on to Fawley Farm, my lord,” he ventured presently. “What will your honour have me say to him when he comes back?”</p>
			<p>“Tell him to present Lord Rupert Alastair’s compliments to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers⁠—who the devil is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers?⁠—and thank him for the loan of his horse.” Rupert, walked round the animal, inspecting its points. “Horse, is it? Cow-hocked bag of bones! A man’s no right to own a scarecrow like this! You hear me, Coggin?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, my lord. Certainly, sir!”</p>
			<p>“Hurry with that shoe, then, and fetch the animal up to the Arms.” Away went Rupert up the road again to the inn, where he found Fletcher awaiting him with a large pistol.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis loaded, sir,” Fletcher warned him. “Indeed, my lord, and are you sure your lordship is well?”</p>
			<p>“Never mind! Which way did the coach go?”</p>
			<p>“Making for Portsmouth, sir, as I judge. But surely to goodness your lordship isn’t of a mind to chase it?”</p>
			<p>“What else, fool? I want a hat. Produce me one.”</p>
			<p>Fletcher resigned himself to the inevitable.</p>
			<p>“If your lordship would condescend to take my Sunday beaver⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Ay, ’twill suffice. Make out the reckoning and I’ll pay⁠—er⁠—when I return. Damn that fellow Coggin! Will he be all night at his work? They’ve nigh on an hour’s start of me already!”</p>
			<p>But Coggin came presently, leading the roan. Rupert stowed his pistol away in the saddle holster, tightened the girths, and sprang into the saddle. The smith gave vent to a last appeal.</p>
			<p>“My lord, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers is a testy gentleman, and indeed⁠—”</p>
			<p>“To hell with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers, I’m sick of the fellow!” said Rupert, and rode off at a canter.</p>
			<p>The borrowed horse was no fiery charger, as Rupert soon discovered. It cherished its own ideas as to a suitable pace to maintain, and managed to do so for the most part, to its own satisfaction and Rupert’s disgust. Thus it was close on four in the afternoon when he came at last into Portsmouth, and both he and his mount were very weary.</p>
			<p>He rode at once to the quay, and learned that the private schooner anchored there for the past three days had set sail not an hour ago. Rupert dashed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fletcher’s hat on the ground.</p>
			<p>“Blister me, I’m too late!”</p>
			<p>The harbour-master eyed him in polite surprise, and picked up the hat.</p>
			<p>“Tell me now,” said Rupert, dismounting. “Was it a French scoundrel embarking?”</p>
			<p>“Ay, sir, ’twas a foreign gentleman with red hair, and his son.”</p>
			<p>“Son?” ejaculated Rupert.</p>
			<p>“Ay, sir, a sick lad it was. The moossoo said he was suffering from a fever. He carried him on board like one dead, all muffled up in a great cloak. I said to Jim here, ‘Jim,’ I said, ‘it’s a shame to take the boy on board, ill as he is, that it is.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Drugged, by Gad!” exclaimed Rupert. “I’ll have his blood for this! Taken her to France, has he! Now, what in thunder does he want with her? Hi, you! When does the next packet sail for Le Havre?”</p>
			<p>“Why, sir, there’s no boat for the likes of you till Wednesday,” said the harbour-master. Rupert’s ruffles might be torn, and his coat muddied, but the harbour-master knew a gentleman when he saw one.</p>
			<p>Rupert glanced ruefully down his person.</p>
			<p>“The likes of me, eh? Well, well!” He pointed with his whip to a ramshackle vessel laden with bales of cloth. “Where is she bound for?”</p>
			<p>“For Le Havre, sir, but ’tis only a trading ship, as your honour sees.”</p>
			<p>“When does she sail?”</p>
			<p>“Tonight, sir. She’s lain here two days too long already, waiting for the wind to turn, but she’ll be away with the tide soon after six.”</p>
			<p>“That’s the ship for me,” said Rupert briskly. “Where’s her master?”</p>
			<p>The harbour-master was perturbed.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis but a dirty old boat, sir, and never a⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Dirty? So am I dirty, damn it!” said Rupert. “Go find me the master, and tell him I want a passage to France this night.”</p>
			<p>So off went the harbour-master, to return anon with a burly individual in homespun, with a great black beard. This gentleman eyed Rupert stolidly, and, removing the long clay pipe from his mouth, rumbled forth two words.</p>
			<p>“Twenty guineas.”</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” said Rupert. “Not a farthing more than ten, you rogue!”</p>
			<p>The bearded gentleman spat deliberately into the sea, but vouchsafed no word. A dangerous light came into Rupert’s eyes. He tapped the man on the shoulder with his riding-whip.</p>
			<p>“Fellow, I am Lord Rupert Alastair. You shall have ten guineas off me and for the rest I’ll see you damned.”</p>
			<p>The harbour-master pricked up his ears.</p>
			<p>“I was hearing, my lord, that his Grace has the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Silver Queen</i> anchored in Southampton Water.”</p>
			<p>“The devil fly away with Justin!” exclaimed Rupert wrathfully. “He was always wont to have her here!”</p>
			<p>“Maybe, sir, if you was to ride to Southampton⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Ride to hell! I’d find them painting her, like as not. Come now, fellow, ten guineas!”</p>
			<p>The harbour-master took his colleague aside and whispered urgently. Presently he turned, and addressed Rupert.</p>
			<p>“I am saying, my lord, as how fifteen guineas is a fair price.”</p>
			<p>“Fifteen guineas it is!” said Rupert promptly, thinking of the two crowns in his pocket. “I shall have to sell the horse.”</p>
			<p>“Six o’clock we sets sail, and don’t wait for nobbut,” growled the captain, and walked off.</p>
			<p>Rupert rode into the town, and by good fortune was able to sell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers’ roan for the sum of twenty guineas. The sale being accomplished he went to the inn on the quayside, and refreshed himself with a wash, and a bowl of punch. Thus fortified he boarded the sailing vessel, and sat him down on a coil of rope, thoroughly enjoying the adventure, and not a little amused.</p>
			<p>“ ’Fore Gad, I never was in such a mad chase!” he remarked to the sky. “Here’s Léonie spirited off by Saint-Vire, the Lord knows why, or where, for that matter⁠—and myself hot on the scent with five crowns in my pocket, and the landlord’s hat on my head. And what am I going to do when I find the chit?” He pondered deeply. “It’s a plaguey queer business, so it is,” he decided. “Justin’s at the back of it, I’ll be bound. And where the devil is Justin?” Suddenly he flung back his head and laughed. “Damme, I’d give something to see old cousin Harriet’s face when she finds me gone off with Léonie! Hey, hey, here’s a pretty coil, to be sure, for, faith, I don’t know where I am, and I don’t know where Léonie is, nor she where I am, and at Avon they don’t where any of us are!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
