<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: His Grace of Avon Becomes Further Acquainted with His Page</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">His Grace of Avon Becomes Further Acquainted with His Page</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>For Léon the days passed swiftly, each one teeming with some new excitement. Never in his life had he seen such sights as now met his eyes. He was dazzled by the new life spread before him; from living in a humble, dirty tavern, he was transported suddenly into gorgeous surroundings, fed with strange foods, clad in fine clothes, and taken into the midst of aristocratic Paris. All at once life seemed to consist of silks and diamonds, bright lights, and awe-inspiring figures. Ladies, whose fingers were covered with rings, and whose costly brocades held an elusive perfume, would stop to smile at him sometimes; great gentlemen with powdered wigs and high heels would flip his head with careless fingers as they passed. Even Monseigneur sometimes spoke to him.</p>
			<p>Fashionable Paris grew accustomed to see him long before he became accustomed to his new existence. After a while people ceased to stare at him when he came in Avon’s wake, but it was some time before he ceased to gaze on all that met his eyes, in wondering appreciation.</p>
			<p>To the amazement of Avon’s household, he still persisted in his worship of the Duke. Nothing could shake him from his standpoint, and if one of the lackeys vented his outraged feelings below-stairs in a tirade against Avon, Léon was up in arms at once, blind rage taking possession of him. Since the Duke had ordained that none should lay violent hands on his page, save at his express command, the lackeys curbed their tongues in Léon’s presence, for he was over-ready with his dagger, and they dare not disobey the Duke’s orders. Gaston, the valet, felt that this hot partisanship was sadly wrong; that any should defend the Duke struck forcibly at his sense of propriety, and more than once he tried to convince the page that it was the duty of any self-respecting menial to loathe the Duke.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Mon petit</i>,” he said firmly, “it is ridiculous. It is unthinkable. <i xml:lang="fr">Même</i>, it is outrageous. It is against all custom. The Duke, he is not human. Some call him Satanas, and <i xml:lang="fr">mon Dieu</i>, they have reason!”</p>
			<p>“I have never seen Satan,” answered Léon, from a large chair where he sat with his feet tucked under him. “But I do not think that Monseigneur is like him.” He reflected. “But if he is like the devil no doubt I should like the devil very much. My brother says I am a child of the devil.”</p>
			<p>“That is shame!” said fat Madame Dubois, the housekeeper, shocked.</p>
			<p>“Faith, he has the devil’s own temper!” chuckled Gregory, a footman.</p>
			<p>“But listen to me, you!” insisted Gaston. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> le Duc is of a hardness! Ah, but who should know better than I? I tell you, <i xml:lang="fr">moi qui vous parle</i>, if he would but be enraged all would go well. If he would throw his mirror at my head I would say naught! That is a gentleman, a noble! But the Duc! Bah! He speaks softly⁠—oh, so softly!⁠—and his eyes they are almost shut, while his voice⁠—voilà, I shudder!” He did shudder, but revived at the murmur of applause. “And you, <i xml:lang="fr">petit</i>! When has he spoken to you as a boy? He speaks to you as his dog! Ah, but it is imbecile to admire such a man! It is not to be believed!”</p>
			<p>“I am his dog. He is kind to me, and I love him,” said Léon firmly.</p>
			<p>“Kind! Madame, you hear?” Gaston appealed to the housekeeper, who sighed, and folded her hands.</p>
			<p>“He is very young,” she said.</p>
			<p>“Now I will tell you of a thing!” Gaston exclaimed. “This Duc, what did he do, think you, three years ago? You see this hôtel? It is fine, it is costly! <i xml:lang="fr">Eh bien!</i> Me, I have served the Duke for six years, so you may know that I speak truth. Three years ago he was poor! There were debts and mortgages. Oh, we lived the same, <i xml:lang="fr">bien sûr</i>; the Alastairs are always thus. We had always the same magnificence, but there were only debts behind the splendour. Me, I know. Then we go to Vienna. As ever the Duc he play for great stakes: that is the way of his house. At first he loses. You would not say he cared, for still he smiles. That too is his way. Then there comes a young nobleman, very rich, very joyous. He plays with the Duc. He loses; he suggests a higher stake; the Duc, he agrees. What would you? Still that young noble loses. On and on, until at last⁠—pouf! It is over! That fortune, it has changed hands. The young man, he is ruined⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">absolument</i>! The Duc, he goes away. He smiles⁠—ah, that smile! The young man fights a duel with pistols a little later, and he fires wide, wide! Because he was ruined he chose Death! And the Duc”⁠—Gaston waved his hands⁠—“he comes to Paris and buys this hôtel with that young noble’s fortune!”</p>
			<p>“Ah!” sighed Madame, and shook her head.</p>
			<p>Léon tilted his chin a little.</p>
			<p>“It is no such great matter. Monseigneur would always play fair. That young man was a fool. <i xml:lang="fr">Voilà tout!</i>”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Mon Dieu</i>, is it thus you speak of the wickedness? Ah, but I could tell of things! If you knew the women that the Duc has courted! If you knew⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Monsieur!” Madame Dubois raised protesting hands. “Before me?”</p>
			<p>“I ask pardon, madame. No, I say nothing. Nothing! But what I know!”</p>
			<p>“Some men,” said Léon gravely, “are like that, I think. I have seen many.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Fi donc!</i>” Madame cried. “So young, too!”</p>
			<p>Léon disregarded the interruption, and looked at Gaston with a worldly wisdom that sat quaintly on his young face.</p>
			<p>“And when I have seen these things I have thought that it is always the woman’s fault.”</p>
			<p>“Hear the child!” exclaimed Madame. “What do you know, <i xml:lang="fr">petit</i>, at your age?”</p>
			<p>Léon shrugged one shoulder, and bent again over his book.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps naught,” he answered.</p>
			<p>Gaston frowned upon him, and would have continued the discussion had not Gregory forestalled him.</p>
			<p>“Tell me, Léon, do you accompany the Duke to-night?”</p>
			<p>“I always go with him.”</p>
			<p>“Poor, poor child!” Madame Dubois sighed gustily. “Indeed, it is not fitting.”</p>
			<p>“Why is it not fitting? I like to go.”</p>
			<p>“I doubt it not, <i xml:lang="fr">mon enfant</i>. But to take a child to Vassaud’s, and to Torquillier’s⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">voyons</i>, it is not <i xml:lang="fr">convenable</i>!”</p>
			<p>Léon’s eyes sparkled mischievously.</p>
			<p>“Last night I went with Monseigneur to the Maison Chourval,” he said demurely.</p>
			<p>“What!” Madame sank back in her chair. “It passes all bounds!”</p>
			<p>“Have you been there, Madame?”</p>
			<p>“I? <i xml:lang="fr">Nom de Dieu</i>, what next will you ask? Is it likely that I should go to such a place?”</p>
			<p>“No, Madame. It is for the nobles, is it not?”</p>
			<p>Madame snorted.</p>
			<p>“And for every pretty slut who walks the streets!” she retorted.</p>
			<p>Léon tilted his head to one side.</p>
			<p>“Me, I did not think them pretty. Painted, and vulgar, with loud voices, and common tricks. But I did not see much.” His brow wrinkled. “I do not know⁠—I <em>think</em> perhaps I had offended Monseigneur, for of a sudden he swept round, and said ‘Await me below!’ He said it as though he were angered.”</p>
			<p>“Tell us, Léon, what is it like, the Maison Chourval?” asked Gaston, unable to conceal his curiosity.</p>
			<p>“Oh, it is a big hôtel, all gold and dirty white, and smelling of some scent that suffocates one. There is a card-room, and other rooms; I forget. There was much wine, and some were drunk. Others, like Monseigneur, were just bored. The women⁠—ah, they are just nothing!”</p>
			<p>Gaston was rather disappointed; he opened his mouth to question Léon further, but Madame’s eye was upon him, and he shut it again. A bell was heard in the distance, and at the sound of it Léon shut his book, and untucked his legs, waiting expectantly. A few minutes later a footman appeared with a summons for him. The page sprang up delightedly, and ran to where a cracked mirror hung. Madame Dubois watched him smooth his copper curls, and smiled indulgently.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Voyons, petit</i>, you are as conceited as a girl,” she remarked.</p>
			<p>Léon flushed, and left the mirror.</p>
			<p>“Would you have me present myself to Monseigneur in disorder? I suppose he is going out. Where is my hat? Gaston, you have sat upon it!” He snatched it from the valet, and hurriedly twitching it into shape, went out in the wake of the footman.</p>
			<p>Avon was standing in the hall, talking to Hugh Davenant. He twirled a pair of soft gloves by their tassels, and his three-cornered hat was under one arm. Léon sank down on to one knee.</p>
			<p>The hard eyes travelled over him indifferently.</p>
			<p>“Well?”</p>
			<p>“Monseigneur sent for me?”</p>
			<p>“Did I? Yes, I believe you are right. I am going out. Do you come with me, Hugh?”</p>
			<p>“Where?” asked Davenant. He bent over the fire, warming his hands.</p>
			<p>“I thought it might be amusing to visit La Fournoise.”</p>
			<p>Hugh made a grimace of distaste.</p>
			<p>“I like actresses on the stage, Justin, but not off it. La Fournoise is too opulent.”</p>
			<p>“So she is. You may go, Léon. Take my gloves.” He tossed them to the page, and his hat after them. “Come and play at piquet, Hugh.” He strolled away to the salon, yawning, and with a tiny shrug of his shoulders Hugh followed.</p>
			<p>At the Comtesse de Marguéry’s ball that night Léon was left to await his master in the hall. He found a chair in a secluded corner, and settled down quite contentedly to watch the arrival of the guests. As it was the Duke’s custom to make his appearance as late as possible, he was not very hopeful of seeing many arrivals. He pulled a book out of his capacious pocket, and started to read.</p>
			<p>For a while only the desultory conversation of the lackeys came to his ears, as they lounged against the stair-rail. Then suddenly they sprang to attention, and the idle chatter stopped. One flung open the door, while another stood ready to relieve this late-comer of his hat and cloak.</p>
			<p>Léon raised his eyes from his book in time to see the Comte de Saint-Vire enter. He was becoming familiar with the notables of town, but even had this not been so Saint-Vire would have been hard to mistake. In these days of fastidiousness in all matters of dress the Comte was conspicuous for the carelessness with which he bore himself, and the slight disorder of his clothes. He was tall, and loose-limbed, with a heavy face, and beak-like nose. His mouth had a sullen curve, and his eyes a latent fierceness in their dark pupils. As usual his thick hair, rather grizzled now, was inadequately powdered, so that here and there a gleam of red showed. He wore many jewels, seemingly chosen at random, and with no regard to the colour of his coat.</p>
			<p>His coat was revealed now, as he allowed the attendant lackey to take his long cloak. Purple velvet met Léon’s critical eye; a salmon-pink vest with embroidering in gold and silver; purple small clothes with white stockings loosely rolled above the knee, and red-heeled shoes with large jewelled buckles. The Comte shook out his ruffles, and put up one hand to straighten his tumbled cravat. As he did so he cast a quick glance about him, and saw the page. A frown came, and the heavy mouth pouted a little. The Comte gave the lace at his throat an impatient twist and walked slowly towards the stairs. With his hand on the rail he paused, and half-turning, jerked his head as a sign that he wished to speak to Léon.</p>
			<p>The page rose at once, and went to him.</p>
			<p>“M’sieur?”</p>
			<p>The spatulate fingers on the rail drummed methodically; Saint-Vire looked the page over broodingly, and for a moment did not speak.</p>
			<p>“Your master is here?” he said at last, and the very lameness of the question seemed to indicate that it was but an excuse to call Léon to him.</p>
			<p>“Yes, m’sieur.”</p>
			<p>The Comte hesitated still, tapping his foot on the polished floor.</p>
			<p>“You accompany him everywhere, I believe?”</p>
			<p>“When Monseigneur wishes it, m’sieur.”</p>
			<p>“From where do you come?” Then, as Léon looked puzzled, he changed the question, speaking sharply. “Where were you born?”</p>
			<p>Léon let fall the long lashes over his eyes.</p>
			<p>“In the country, m’sieur,” he said.</p>
			<p>The Comte’s thick brows drew together.</p>
			<p>“What part of the country?”</p>
			<p>“I do not know, m’sieur.”</p>
			<p>“You are strangely ignorant,” said Saint-Vire sarcastically.</p>
			<p>“Yes, m’sieur.” Léon glanced up, chin firmly set. “I do not know why m’sieur should take so great an interest in me.”</p>
			<p>“You are impertinent. I have no interest in peasant-children.” The Comte went on up the staircase, to the ballroom.</p>
			<p>In a group by the door stood his Grace of Avon, clad in shades of blue, with his star on his breast, a cluster of blazing diamonds. Saint-Vire paused for a moment before he tapped that straight shoulder.</p>
			<p>“If you please, m’sieur⁠ ⁠… !”</p>
			<p>The Duke turned to see who accosted him, eyebrows raised. When his eyes alighted on Saint-Vire the haughty look faded, and he smiled, bowing with the exaggerated flourish that made a veiled insult of the courtesy.</p>
			<p>“My dear Comte! I had almost begun to fear that I should not have the felicity of meeting you here to-night. I trust I see you well?”</p>
			<p>“I thank you, yes,” Saint-Vire would have passed on, but again his Grace stood in the way.</p>
			<p>“Strange to say, dear Comte, Florimond and I were but this instant speaking of you⁠—your brother, rather. Where is the good Armand?”</p>
			<p>“My brother, m’sieur, is this month in attendance at Versailles.”</p>
			<p>“Ah? Quite a family gathering at Versailles,” smiled the Duke. “I trust the Vicomte, your so charming son, finds court life to his taste?”</p>
			<p>The man who stood at the Duke’s elbow laughed a little at this, and addressed Saint-Vire.</p>
			<p>“The Vicomte is quite an original, is he not, Henri?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, the boy is young yet!” Saint-Vire answered. “He likes court well enough.”</p>
			<p>Florimond de Chantourelle tittered amiably.</p>
			<p>“He so amused me with his megrims and his sighs! He told me once that he liked best to be in the country, and that ’twas his ambition to have a farm under his own management at Saint-Vire!”</p>
			<p>A shadow crossed the Comte’s face.</p>
			<p>“A boy’s fancy. When at Saint-Vire he pines for Paris. Your pardon, messieurs⁠—I see Madame de Marguéry.” He brushed past Avon as he spoke, making his way towards his hostess.</p>
			<p>“Our friend is always so delightfully brusque,” remarked the Duke. “One wonders why he is tolerated.”</p>
			<p>“He has moods,” answered Chantourelle. “Sometimes he is very agreeable, but he is not much liked. Now Armand is another matter. Of a gaiety⁠—! You know that there is enmity between them?” He lowered his voice mysteriously, agog to relate the tale.</p>
			<p>“The dear Comte is at pains to show us that it is so,” said Avon. “My esteemed friend!” He waved one languid hand to a lavishly powdered and painted individual. “Did I see you with Mademoiselle de Sonnebrune? Now that is a taste I find hard to cultivate.”</p>
			<p>The painted gentleman paused, simpering.</p>
			<p>“Oh, my dear Duc, she is the <i xml:lang="fr">dernier cri</i>! One must worship at her feet; it is de rigueur, I assure you.”</p>
			<p>Avon put up his glass the better to observe Mademoiselle.</p>
			<p>“H’m! Is Paris so devoid of beauties, then?”</p>
			<p>“You do not admire her, no? It is a stately beauty, of course.” He was silent for a while, watching the dancers; then he turned again to Avon. “Apropos, Duc, is it true that you have acquired a most striking page? I have been out of Paris this fortnight, but I hear now that a red-haired boy goes everywhere in your wake.”</p>
			<p>“Quite true,” said Justin. “I thought that the violent but fleeting interest of the world had died?”</p>
			<p>“No, oh no! It was Saint-Vire who spoke of the boy. It seems there is some mystery attached to him, is it not so? A nameless page!”</p>
			<p>Justin turned his rings round, smiling faintly.</p>
			<p>“You may tell Saint-Vire, my friend, that there is no mystery. The page has a very good name.”</p>
			<p>“I may tell him?” The Vicomte was puzzled. “But why, Duc? ’Twas but an idle conversation.”</p>
			<p>“Naturally.” The enigmatical smile grew. “I should have said that you may tell him if he asks again.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, but I do not suppose⁠—Ah, there is Davenant! <i xml:lang="fr">Mille pardons, Duc!</i>” He minced away to meet Davenant.</p>
			<p>Avon smothered a yawn in his scented handkerchief, and proceeded in his leisurely fashion to the card-room, where he remained for perhaps an hour. Then he sought out his hostess, complimented her in his soft voice, and departed.</p>
			<p>Léon was half asleep downstairs, but he opened his eyes as the Duke’s footfall sounded, and jumped up. He assisted the Duke into his cloak, handed him his hat and gloves, and asked whether he was to summon a chair. But the Duke elected to walk, and further commanded his page to keep step beside him. They walked slowly down the street and had turned the corner before Avon spoke.</p>
			<p>“My child, when the Comte de Saint-Vire questioned you this evening, what did you answer?”</p>
			<p>Léon gave a little skip of surprise, looking up at his master in frank wonderment.</p>
			<p>“How did you know, Monseigneur? I did not see you.”</p>
			<p>“Possibly not. No doubt you will answer my question in your own good time.”</p>
			<p>“Pardon, Monseigneur! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> le Comte asked me where I was born. I do not understand why he should wish to know.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose you told him so?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Monseigneur,” nodded Léon. He looked up, twinkling. “I thought you would not be angered if I spoke just a little rudely to that one?” He saw Avon’s lips curl, and flushed in triumph at having made the Duke smile.</p>
			<p>“Very shrewd,” remarked Justin. “And then you said⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“I said I did not know, Monseigneur. It is true.”</p>
			<p>“A comforting thought.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” agreed the page. “I do not like to tell lies.”</p>
			<p>“No?” For once Avon seemed disposed to encourage his page to talk. Nothing loth, Léon continued.</p>
			<p>“No, Monseigneur. Of course it is sometimes necessary, but I do not like it. Once or twice I lied to Jean because I was afraid to tell the truth, but that is cowardly, <i xml:lang="fr">n’est-ce pas</i>? I think it is not so wicked to lie to your enemy, but one could not lie⁠—to a friend, or⁠—or to somebody one loved. That would be a black sin, would it not?”</p>
			<p>“As I cannot remember ever having loved anyone, I am hardly fitted to answer that question, my child.”</p>
			<p>Léon considered him gravely.</p>
			<p>“No one?” he asked. “Me, I do not love often, but when I do it is for ever. I loved my mother, and the Curé, and⁠—and I love you, Monseigneur.”</p>
			<p>“I beg your pardon?” Avon was a little startled.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I only said that I loved you, Monseigneur.”</p>
			<p>“I thought that I could not have heard aright. It is, of course, gratifying, but I do not think you have chosen too wisely. I am sure they will seek to reform you, below-stairs.”</p>
			<p>The big eyes flashed.</p>
			<p>“They dare not!”</p>
			<p>The quizzing-glass was raised.</p>
			<p>“Indeed? Are you so formidable?”</p>
			<p>“I have a very bad temper, Monseigneur.”</p>
			<p>“And you use it in my defence. It is most amusing. Do you fly out upon⁠—my valet, for instance?”</p>
			<p>Léon gave a tiny sniff of scorn.</p>
			<p>“Oh, he is just a fool, Monseigneur!”</p>
			<p>“Lamentably a fool. I have often remarked it.”</p>
			<p>They had come to Avon’s hôtel by now, and the waiting lackeys held the door for them to pass through. In the hall Avon paused, while Léon stood expectantly before him.</p>
			<p>“You may bring wine to the library,” said the Duke, and went in.</p>
			<p>When Léon appeared with a heavy silver tray Justin was seated by the fire, his feet upon the hearth. Beneath drooping lids he watched his page pour out a glass of burgundy. Léon brought it to him.</p>
			<p>“Thank you.” Avon smiled at Léon’s evident surprise at the unusual courtesy. “No doubt you imagined that I was sadly lacking in manners? You may sit down. At my feet.”</p>
			<p>Léon promptly curled up on the rug, cross-legged, and sat looking at the Duke, rather bewildered, but palpably pleased.</p>
			<p>Justin drank a little wine, still watching the page, and then set the glass down on a small table at his elbow.</p>
			<p>“You find me a trifle unexpected? I desire to be entertained.”</p>
			<p>Léon looked at him seriously.</p>
			<p>“What shall I do, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“You may talk,” Avon said. “Your youthful views on life are most amusing. Pray continue.”</p>
			<p>Léon laughed suddenly.</p>
			<p>“I do not know what to say, Monseigneur! I do not think I have anything interesting to talk about. I chatter and chatter, they tell me, but it is all nothing. Madame Dubois lets me talk, but Walker⁠—ah, Walker is dull and strict!”</p>
			<p>“Who is Madame⁠—er⁠—Dubois?”</p>
			<p>Léon opened his eyes very wide.</p>
			<p>“But she is your housekeeper, Monseigneur!”</p>
			<p>“Really? I have never seen her. Is she a stimulating auditor?”</p>
			<p>“Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“No matter. Tell me of your life in Anjou. Before Jean brought you to Paris.”</p>
			<p>Léon settled himself more comfortably, and as the arm of Avon’s chair was near enough to be an inviting prop, he leaned against it, unaware that he was committing a breach of etiquette. Avon said nothing, but picked up his glass and started to sip the wine it held.</p>
			<p>“In Anjou⁠—it is all so very far away,” sighed Léon. “We lived in a little house, and there were horses and cows and pigs⁠—oh, many animals! And my father did not like it that I would not touch the cows or the pigs. They were dirty, you understand. Maman said I should not work on the farm, but she made me care for the fowls. I did not mind that so much. There was one speckled hen, all mine. Jean stole it to tease me. Jean is like that, you know. Then there was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> le Curé. He lived a little way from our farm, in a tiny house next the church. And he was very, very good and kind. He gave me sweetmeats when I learned my lessons well, and sometimes he told stories⁠—oh, wonderful stories of fairies and knights! I was only a baby then, but I can still remember them. And my father said it was not seemly that a priest should tell of things that are not, like fairies. I was not very fond of my father. He was like Jean, a little⁠ ⁠… Then there was the plague, and people died. I went to the Curé, and⁠—but Monseigneur knows all this.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me of your life in Paris, then,” said Justin.</p>
			<p>Léon nested his head against the arm of the chair, looking dreamily into the fire. The cluster of candles at Avon’s elbow played softly over the copper curls so that they seemed alive and on fire in the golden light. Léon’s delicate profile was turned towards the Duke, and he watched it inscrutably; each quiver of the fine lips, each flicker of the dark lashes. And so Léon told his tale, haltingly at first, and shyly, hesitating over the more sordid parts, his voice fluctuating with each changing emotion until he seemed to forget to whom he spoke, and lost himself in his narration. Avon listened in silence, sometimes smiling at the quaint philosophy the boy unfolded, but more often expressionless, always watching Léon’s face with narrowed keen eyes. The hardships and endurances of those years in Paris were revealed more by what was left unsaid than by any complaint or direct allusion to the petty tyrannies and cruelties of Jean and his wife. At times the recital was that of a child, but every now and then a note of age and experience crept into the little deep voice, lending a strange whimsicality to the story, which seemed to invest the teller with a Puck-like quality of old and young wisdom. When at last the rambling tale was finished Léon moved slightly, and put up a timid hand to touch the Duke’s sleeve.</p>
			<p>“And then you came, Monseigneur, and you brought me here, giving me everything. I shall never forget that.”</p>
			<p>“You have not seen the worst of me yet, my friend,” answered Justin. “I am really not the hero you think of me. When I bought you from your estimable brother it was not, believe me, from any desire to save you from bondage. I had a use for you. If it should chance that you are after all of no use to me I am quite likely to cast you forth. I say this that you may be warned.”</p>
			<p>“If you send me away I will drown myself!” said Léon passionately. “When you are tired of me, Monseigneur, I will serve in your kitchen. But I will never leave you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, when I am tired of you I shall give you to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> Davenant!” Avon chuckled a little. “It should be amusing⁠—Dear me, speak of angels⁠—!”</p>
			<p>Hugh came quietly in, but paused on the threshold, staring at the two by the fire.</p>
			<p>“Quite a touching picture, eh, Hugh? Satanas in a new role.” He flicked Léon’s head with one careless finger. “Bed, my child.”</p>
			<p>Léon rose at once, and reverently kissed the Duke’s hand. With a little bow to Davenant he went out.</p>
			<p>Hugh waited until he had closed the door; then he strode forward to the fire, frowning. Resting his elbow on the mantelpiece, his other hand thrust deep into his pocket, he stood looking down at his friend with a good deal of severity in his glance.</p>
			<p>“When are you going to end this folly?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>Justin tilted his head back, returning the angry stare with one of amused cynicism.</p>
			<p>“What ails you now, my good Hugh?”</p>
			<p>“Seeing that child at your feet fills me with⁠—disgust!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I thought that you seemed perturbed. It must tickle your sense of the ridiculous to observe me upon a pinnacle of heroism.”</p>
			<p>“It sickens me! That child worshipping at your feet! I hope his admiration stings you! If it could make you realise your own unworthiness it were to some purpose!”</p>
			<p>“Unhappily it does not. May I ask, my dear Hugh, why you take so great an interest in⁠—a page?”</p>
			<p>“It is his youth and innocence that command my pity.”</p>
			<p>“Curiously enough he is by no means as innocent as you imagine.”</p>
			<p>Davenant turned impatiently on his heel. He walked to the door, but as he opened it Avon spoke again.</p>
			<p>“By the way, my dear, I am relieving you of my company to-morrow. Pray hold me excused from going with you to Lourdonne’s card-party.”</p>
			<p>Hugh looked back.</p>
			<p>“Oh? Where are you going?”</p>
			<p>“I am going to Versailles. I feel that it is time I again paid homage to King Louis. I suppose it is useless to ask your company?”</p>
			<p>“Quite, I thank you. I’ve no love for Versailles. Is Léon to go with you?”</p>
			<p>“I have really not given the matter a thought. It seems probable. Unless you wish to take him to Lourdonne’s?”</p>
			<p>Hugh left the room without a word.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
