<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII: The Hand of Madame de Verchoureux</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Hand of Madame de Verchoureux</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>And Paris began to talk, in whispers at first, then gradually louder, and more openly. Paris remembered an old, old scandal, and said that the English Duc had adopted a baseborn daughter of Saint-Vire in revenge for past injuries. Paris thought that it must irk Saint-Vire considerably to see his offspring in the hands of his greatest enemy. Then Paris wondered what the English Duc meant to do with Mademoiselle de Bonnard, and found no solution to the riddle. Paris shook its head, and thought that the ways of Avon were inscrutable and probably fiendish.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile Lady Fanny swept through the town with Léonie, and saw to it that her social activities this season should not easily be forgotten. Léonie enjoyed herself very much, and Paris enjoyed her even more. In the mornings she rode out with Avon, and two factions sprang up thereafter amongst her admirers. One faction held that the divine Léonie was seen at her best in the saddle; the other faction was firm that in the ballroom she was incomparable. One excitable young gentleman challenged another on this score, but Hugh Davenant was present, and he took both young hotheads severely to task for bandying Léonie’s name about over their cups, and the affair came to naught.</p>
			<p>Others tried to make love to Léonie, whereat she was angry, and turned a cold shoulder on their enthusiasms. She could be dignified when she chose, and her admirers were speedily abashed. Learning of their discomfiture one evening when she was helping Léonie to dress, Lady Fanny forgot herself, and exclaimed:</p>
			<p>“Oh, splendidly done, my love! What a duchess you will make, to be sure!”</p>
			<p>“A duchess, madame?” Léonie said. “How could I be that?”</p>
			<p>Lady Fanny looked at her, and then at a new bracelet that lay on the table.</p>
			<p>“Don’t tell me you don’t know, puss!”</p>
			<p>Léonie was trembling now.</p>
			<p>“Madame⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, my dear, he’s head over ears in love with you, as all the world must know! I have watched it grow, and⁠—my dearest life, there is no one I would sooner have for my sister than you, I do assure you!”</p>
			<p>“Madame, you⁠—you must be mistaken!”</p>
			<p>“Mistaken? I? Trust me to read the signs, my love! I have known Justin many years, and never have I seen him as he is now. Silly child, why does he give you all these jewels?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I am his ward, madame.”</p>
			<p>“Pooh!” My lady snapped her fingers. “A fig for that! Tell me why he made you his ward?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I do not know, madame. I⁠—did not think.”</p>
			<p>My lady kissed her again.</p>
			<p>“You will be a duchess before the year is out, never fear!”</p>
			<p>Léonie pushed her away.</p>
			<p>“It’s not true! You shall not say these things!”</p>
			<p>“Why, here’s a heat! Is there ever a man you have liked as you liked ‘Monseigneur’?”</p>
			<p>“Madame⁠—” Léonie pressed her hands together. “I am very ignorant, but I know⁠—I have heard what people say when such as Monseigneur wed⁠—wed ladies of no birth. I am only a tavern-keeper’s sister. Monseigneur could not marry me. I⁠—I had not thought of it.”</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis I who am a fool to have put the idea into your head!” said Fanny remorsefully.</p>
			<p>“Madame, I beg you will not say it to anyone.”</p>
			<p>“Not I, child, but everyone knows that you have Avon in your toils.”</p>
			<p>“I have not! I hate you when you talk like that!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, my dear, we are but two women! What matter? Justin will count no cost, believe me. You may be born as low as you please, but will he care once he looks into your eyes?”</p>
			<p>Léonie shook her head stubbornly.</p>
			<p>“I know I am not a fool, madame. It would be a disgrace for him to marry me. One must be born.”</p>
			<p>“Fiddle, child! If Paris accepts you without question shall not Avon too?”</p>
			<p>“Madame, Monseigneur has no love for those who are lowborn. Many, many times I have heard him say so.”</p>
			<p>“Never think of it, child.” Lady Fanny wished that she had not allowed her tongue to run away with her. “Come, let me tie your ribbons!” She bustled about Léonie, and presently whispered in her ear: “My sweet, do you not love him?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, madame, madame, I have always loved him, but I did not think⁠—until you made me see⁠—”</p>
			<p>“There, child, there! Do not cry, I implore you! You will make your eyes red.”</p>
			<p>“I do not care about my eyes!” said Léonie, but she dried her tears, and permitted Lady Fanny to powder her face again.</p>
			<p>When they went downstairs together Avon stood in the hall, and the sight of him brought the colour to Léonie’s cheeks. He looked at her closely.</p>
			<p>“What ails you, infant?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing, Monseigneur.”</p>
			<p>He pinched her chin caressingly.</p>
			<p>“It is the thought of your princely admirer that makes you blush, <i xml:lang="fr">ma fille</i>?”</p>
			<p>Léonie recovered herself at this.</p>
			<p>“Ah bah!” she said scornfully.</p>
			<p>Condé was not present at Madame de Vauvallon’s rout that night, but there were many others who had come to see Léonie, and not a few who had come early in the hope of securing her hand for a dance. Avon arrived late, as ever, and Madame de Vauvallon, who had no daughters of marriageable age, greeted him with a laugh, and a gesture of despair.</p>
			<p>“My friend, I have a score of young beaux who give me no peace until I promise to present them to <i xml:lang="fr">la petite</i>! Fanny, Marchérand is back! Let me find⁠—oh, la la! I should say choose⁠—a gallant for Léonie, and I’ll tell you the scandal! Come, little one!” She took Léonie’s hand, and led her into the room. “How you have set Paris by the ears! Were my daughters older I should be so jealous! Now child, who will you have to lead you out?”</p>
			<p>Léonie looked round the room.</p>
			<p>“I do not mind, madame. I will have⁠—Oh, oh, oh!” She let go Madame’s hand, and ran forward. “Milor’ Merivale, Milor’ Merivale!” she cried joyfully.</p>
			<p>Merivale turned quickly.</p>
			<p>“Léonie! Well, child, and how do you go on?” He kissed her hand. She was radiant. “I hoped I might see you here tonight.”</p>
			<p>Madame de Vauvallon bore down upon them.</p>
			<p>“Fie, what behaviour!” she said indulgently. “Is this your cavalier? Very well, <i xml:lang="fr">petite</i>. You need no introduction, it seems.” She smiled benignantly upon them, and went back to Fanny’s side.</p>
			<p>Léonie tucked her hand in Merivale’s.</p>
			<p>“M’sieur, I am very pleased to see you. Is Madame here too?”</p>
			<p>“No, child, I am on one of my periodical visits. Alone. I won’t deny that I was drawn hither by certain rumours that reached us in London.”</p>
			<p>She put her head on one side.</p>
			<p>“What rumours, m’sieur?”</p>
			<p>His smile grew.</p>
			<p>“Faith, rumours of the <i xml:lang="fr">succès fou</i> that has been achieved by⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Me!” she cried, and clapped her hands. “Milor’, I am <i xml:lang="fr">le dernier cri</i>! <i xml:lang="fr">Vraiment</i>, it is so! Lady Fanny says it is. <i xml:lang="fr">C’est ridicule, n’est-ce pas?</i>” She saw Avon coming towards them, and beckoned with pretty imperiousness. “Monseigneur, see whom I have found!”</p>
			<p>“Merivale?” His Grace made a leg. “Now why?”</p>
			<p>“We have heard things in London,” said Merivale. “Egad, I could not but come!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, and we are very glad!” Léonie said enthusiastically.</p>
			<p>His Grace offered Merivale snuff.</p>
			<p>“Why, I believe my infant speaks for us all,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Hey, is it you, Tony, or am I in my cups?” demanded a jovial voice. Lord Rupert came up, and wrung Merivale’s hand. “Where are you staying? When did you come?”</p>
			<p>“Last night. I am with De Châtelet. And⁠—” he looked from one to the other⁠—“I am something anxious to hear what befell you all!”</p>
			<p>“Ay, you were in our escapade, weren’t you?” said Rupert. “Gad, what a chase! How does my friend⁠—stap me if I have not forgot his name again!⁠—Manvers! That’s the fellow! How does he?”</p>
			<p>Merivale flung out a hand.</p>
			<p>“I beg you’ll not mention that name to me!” he said. “All three of you fled the country, and faith, it’s as well you did!”</p>
			<p>“I suggest we repair to the smaller salon,” Avon said, and led the way there. “I trust you were able to satisfy <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Manvers?”</p>
			<p>Merivale shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Nothing less than your blood is like to satisfy him,” he said. “Tell me all that happened to you.”</p>
			<p>“In English,” drawled his Grace, “and softly.”</p>
			<p>So once again the tale was told of Léonie’s capture and rescue. Then Madame de Vauvallon came in search of Léonie, and bore her away to dance with an ardent youth. Rupert wandered away to the cardroom.</p>
			<p>Merivale looked at the Duke.</p>
			<p>“And what does Saint-Vire say to Léonie’s success?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Very little,” replied his Grace. “But he is not pleased, I fear.”</p>
			<p>“She does not know?”</p>
			<p>“She does not.”</p>
			<p>“But the likeness is striking, Alastair. What says Paris?”</p>
			<p>“Paris,” said his Grace, “talks in whispers. Thus my very dear friend Saint-Vire lives in some dread of discovery.”</p>
			<p>“When do you intend to strike?”</p>
			<p>Avon crossed his legs, and eyed one diamond shoe-buckle pensively.</p>
			<p>“That, my dear Merivale, is still on the knees of the gods. Saint-Vire himself must supply the proof to my story.”</p>
			<p>“It’s awkward, damned awkward!” Merivale commented. “You’ve no proof at all?”</p>
			<p>“None.”</p>
			<p>Merivale laughed.</p>
			<p>“It does not seem to worry you!”</p>
			<p>“No,” sighed his Grace, “no. I believe I can trap the Comte through his so charming wife. I play a waiting game, you see.”</p>
			<p>“I am glad that I am not Saint-Vire. Your game must be torture to him.”</p>
			<p>“Why, so I think,” agreed Avon pleasantly. “I am not anxious to put an end to his agonies.”</p>
			<p>“You’re very vindictive!”</p>
			<p>There was a moment’s silence; then Avon spoke.</p>
			<p>“I wonder if you have realised to the full my friend’s villainy. Consider for a moment, I beg of you. What mercy would you show to a man who could condemn his own daughter to the life my infant has led?”</p>
			<p>Merivale straightened in his chair.</p>
			<p>“I know nothing of her life. It was bad?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, my dear, it was indeed bad. Until she was twelve years old she, a Saint-Vire, was reared as a peasant. After that she lived among the canaille of Paris. Conceive a tavern in a mean street, a bully for master, a shrew for mistress, and Vice, in all its lowest forms, under my infant’s very nose.”</p>
			<p>“It must have been⁠—hell!” Merivale said.</p>
			<p>“Just so,” bowed his Grace. “It was the very worst kind of hell, as I know.”</p>
			<p>“The wonder is that she has come through it unscathed.”</p>
			<p>The hazel eyes lifted.</p>
			<p>“Not quite unscathed, my dear Anthony. Those years have left their mark.”</p>
			<p>“It were inevitable, I suppose. But I confess I have not seen the mark.”</p>
			<p>“Possibly not. You see the roguery, and the dauntless spirit.”</p>
			<p>“And you?” Merivale watched him curiously.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I see beneath, my dear! But then, I have had experience of the sex, as you know.”</p>
			<p>“And you see⁠—what?”</p>
			<p>“A certain cynicism, born of the life she has led; a streak of strange wisdom; the wistfulness behind the gaiety; sometimes fear; and nearly always the memory of loneliness that hurts the soul.”</p>
			<p>Merivale looked down at his snuffbox, and fell to tracing the pattern on it with one finger.</p>
			<p>“Do you know,” he said slowly, “I think that you have grown, Alastair?”</p>
			<p>His Grace rose.</p>
			<p>“Quite a reformed character, in fact,” he said.</p>
			<p>“You can do no wrong in Léonie’s eyes.”</p>
			<p>“No, it is most amusing, is it not?” Avon smiled, but there was bitterness in his smile, which Merivale saw.</p>
			<p>Then they went back into the ballroom, and learned from Lady Fanny that Léonie had disappeared some time ago on Rupert’s arm, and had not since been seen.</p>
			<p>She had indeed gone out with Rupert to a small salon where he brought her refreshment. Then had come towards them one Madame de Verchoureux, a handsome termagant who had been all things to Avon when Léonie had first come to him. She looked at Léonie with hatred in her eyes, and paused for a moment beside her couch.</p>
			<p>Rupert came to his feet, and bowed. Madame swept a curtsy.</p>
			<p>“It is⁠—Mademoiselle de Bonnard?” she said.</p>
			<p>“Yes, madame.” Léonie got up, and curtsied also. “I am very stupid, but I cannot at once recall madame’s name.”</p>
			<p>Rupert, supposing the lady to be one of Fanny’s friends, lounged back into the ballroom; Léonie was left looking up at Avon’s slighted mistress.</p>
			<p>“I felicitate you, mademoiselle,” said the lady sarcastically. “You are more fortunate than I was, it seems.”</p>
			<p>“Madame?” The sparkle was gone from Léonie’s eyes. “Have I the honour of madame’s acquaintance?”</p>
			<p>“I am one Henriette de Verchoureux. You do not know me.”</p>
			<p>“Pardon, madame, but I know of you⁠—much,” Léonie said swiftly. Madame had steered clear of open scandal, but she was somewhat notorious. Léonie remembered the days when Avon had visited her so often.</p>
			<p>Madame flushed angrily.</p>
			<p>“Indeed, mademoiselle. And of Mademoiselle de Bonnard is also known⁠—much. Mademoiselle is very clever, <i xml:lang="fr">sans doute</i>, but to those who know Avon the so strict chaperon is a poor disguise.”</p>
			<p>Léonie raised her eyebrows.</p>
			<p>“Is it possible that madame imagines that I have succeeded where she failed?”</p>
			<p>“Insolent!” Madame’s hand clenched on her fan.</p>
			<p>“Madame?”</p>
			<p>Madame stared down at Youth, and knew the pangs of jealousy.</p>
			<p>“Brazen it out!” she said shrilly. “You hope to marry in all honour, little fool, but be advised by me, and leave him, for Avon will wed no baseborn girl!”</p>
			<p>Léonie’s eyelids flickered, but she said nothing. Madame changed her tactics suddenly, and stretched out her hand.</p>
			<p>“My dear, I protest I pity you! You are so young; you do not know the ways of this world of ours. Avon would not be fool enough to wed with one of your blood, believe me. He were surely lost an he dared!” She laughed, covertly watching Léonie. “Even an English Duke would not be received were he wedded to such as you,” she said.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Tiens</i>, am I so base?” Léonie said with polite interest. “I think it is not possible that madame should have known my parents.”</p>
			<p>Madame shot her a piercing look.</p>
			<p>“Can it be that you do not know?” she asked, and flung back her head, and laughed again. “Have you not heard the whispers? Have you not seen that Paris watches you, and wonders?”</p>
			<p>“But yes, madame, I know that I am quite the rage.”</p>
			<p>“Poor child, is that all you know? Why, where is your mirror? Where are your eyes? Have you never looked at that fiery head of yours, never asked whence came your black brows and lashes? All Paris knows, and you are ignorant!”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Eh bien!</i>” Léonie’s heart beat fast, but she maintained her outward composure. “Enlighten me, madame! What does Paris know?”</p>
			<p>“That you are a baseborn child of the Saint-Vire, my child. And we⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">nous autres</i>⁠—laugh to see Avon all unconsciously harbouring a daughter of his dearest enemy!”</p>
			<p>Léonie was as white as her ruffle.</p>
			<p>“You lie!”</p>
			<p>Madame laughed tauntingly.</p>
			<p>“Ask your fine father if I lie!” She gathered her skirts about her, and made a gesture of disdain. “Avon must know soon, and then what comes to you? Little fool, best leave him now while you may do so of your own choice!” She was gone on the word, leaving Léonie to stand alone in the salon, her hands clasped together tightly, her face set and rigid.</p>
			<p>Gradually she relaxed her taut muscles, and sank down again upon the couch, trembling. Her impulse was to seek shelter at Avon’s side, but she restrained herself, and stayed where she was. At first she was incredulous of Madame de Verchoureux’s pronouncement, but little by little she came to see the probability of the story’s truth. Saint-Vire’s attempt to kidnap her was thus explained, as was also the interest he had always taken in her. Sick disgust rose in her.</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Bon Dieu</i>, what a father I have!” she said viciously. “Pig-person! Bah!”</p>
			<p>Disgust gave way to a feeling of horror, and of fright. If Madame de Verchoureux had spoken the truth, Léonie could see the old loneliness stretching ahead, for it was clearly unthinkable that such a one as Avon could marry, or even adopt, a girl of her birth. He came of the nobility; she felt herself to be of mongrel blood. Lax he might be, but Léonie knew that if he married her he would disgrace the ancient name he bore. Those who knew him said that he would count no cost, but Léonie would count the cost for him, and because she loved him, because he was her seigneur, she would sacrifice everything sooner than drag him down in the eyes of his world.</p>
			<p>She bit hard on her lip; it was better by far to think herself of peasant blood than a bastard daughter of Saint-Vire. Her world was toppling about her ears, but she rose up, and went back into the ballroom.</p>
			<p>Avon came to her soon, and gave her his arm.</p>
			<p>“I believe you are tired, my infant. We will find Lady Fanny.”</p>
			<p>Léonie tucked her hand in his arm, and gave a little sigh.</p>
			<p>“Monseigneur, let us go, and leave Lady Fanny, and Rupert. I do not want them.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, infant.” Avon beckoned to Rupert across the room, and when he came to them, said languidly: “I am taking the child home, Rupert. Oblige me by waiting to escort Fanny.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll take Léonie home,” offered Rupert with alacrity. “Fanny won’t come away for hours!”</p>
			<p>“That is why I am leaving you to look to her,” said his Grace. “Come, <i xml:lang="fr">ma fille</i>.”</p>
			<p>He took Léonie home in his light town chaise, and during the short drive she forced herself to talk gaily of the rout they had left, of this man and that, and a thousand other trivialities. Arrived at the Hôtel Avon she went at once to the library. His Grace followed.</p>
			<p>“Well, <i xml:lang="fr">ma mie</i>, what now?”</p>
			<p>“Now it is just as it used to be,” Léonie said wistfully, and sat down on a low stool beside the Duke’s chair.</p>
			<p>His Grace poured out a glass of wine, and looked down at Léonie with a questioning lift to his brows.</p>
			<p>Léonie clasped her hands about her knees, and stared deep into the fire.</p>
			<p>“Monseigneur, the Duc de Penthièvre was there tonight.”</p>
			<p>“As I saw, infant.”</p>
			<p>“You do not mind him, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“Not at all, infant. Why should I?”</p>
			<p>“Well, Monseigneur, he is not⁠—he is not wellborn, is he?”</p>
			<p>“On the contrary, child, his father was a royal bastard, and his mother a de Noailles.”</p>
			<p>“That was what I meant,” said Léonie. “It does not matter that his father was a bastard prince?”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">Ma fille</i>, since the Comte de Toulouse’s father was the King, it does not matter at all.”</p>
			<p>“It would matter if his father were not the King, would it not? I think it is very strange.”</p>
			<p>“It is the way of the world, infant. We forgive the peccadilloes of a king, but look askance on those of a commoner.”</p>
			<p>“Even you, Monseigneur. And⁠—and you do not love those who are baseborn.”</p>
			<p>“I do not, infant. I deplore the modern tendency to flaunt an indiscretion before the eyes of Society.”</p>
			<p>Léonie nodded.</p>
			<p>“Yes, Monseigneur.” She was silent for a moment. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">M.</abbr> de Saint-Vire was also there tonight.”</p>
			<p>“I trust he did not seek to abduct you again?” His Grace spoke flippantly.</p>
			<p>“No, Monseigneur. Why did he try to do it before?”</p>
			<p>“Doubtless because of your <i xml:lang="fr">beaux yeux</i>, infant.”</p>
			<p>“Bah, that is foolish! What was his real reason, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“My child, you make a great mistake in thinking me omniscient. You confuse me with Hugh Davenant.”</p>
			<p>Léonie blinked.</p>
			<p>“Does that mean that you do not know, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“Something of the sort, <i xml:lang="fr">ma fille</i>.”</p>
			<p>She raised her head, and looked at him straightly.</p>
			<p>“Do you suppose, Monseigneur, that he did it because he does not like you?”</p>
			<p>“Quite possibly, infant. His motives need not worry us. May I now be permitted to ask you a question?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Monseigneur?”</p>
			<p>“There was at the rout tonight a lady of the name of Verchoureux. Did you have speech with her?”</p>
			<p>Léonie was gazing into the fire again.</p>
			<p>“Verchoureux?” she said musingly. “I do not think⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“It’s very well,” said his Grace.</p>
			<p>Then Hugh Davenant came into the room, and his Grace, looking at him, did not see the telltale blush that crept on Léonie’s cheeks.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
